Configure and managed shared folders
	
Explore shared folders
	: When share a folder that means you make its content available in network for multiple user.	
	: Windows allows you to right-click a file in a user's profile, and then select Share with. However, this will share the Users folder, in which all user profiles are stored.

- Shared folders permissions
	: Read - Read only
	: Change - Modify, delete, create but can't modify permission. includes read permission
	: Full Control - Can do anything they want

- View shared folders
- Connecting to a shared folder
	: Users can connect to a shared folder most commonly over the network by using its Universal Naming Convention (UNC) address.
	: The UNC address contains the name of the computer that is hosting the folder and the shared folder name, separated by a backward slash (\), and preceded by two backward slashes (\\).
	: Ex  \\LON-CL1.Adatum.com\Sales. where LON-CL1.Adatum.com is domain name and sales is folder name

- Ways to share folder 
	: The Shared Folders snap-in
	: File Explorer
	: A command prompt
	: Windows PowerShell cmdlets

Examine methods available for connecting to share folders
- Sharing folders by using the shared folders snap-in
	: Shared folder shanp-in used to managed computer files centrally.

- Sharing folders by using File explorer
	: Using the Share with option from the shortcut menu or ribbon (also called Network File and Folder Sharing on the Sharing tab).
	: Selecting Advanced security from the Sharing tab.

- Usig the share with option (Network File and Folder Sharing)
	: The Share with option is a quick and easy way to share a folder. When you right-click a folder, and then select Share with, you see a submenu that allows you to stop sharing the folder or share the folder with specific people. 
	: After you selecting user or group with whom you want to share it, then you can set a permissions to them.
	: You can’t share the same folder multiple times by using Network File and Folder Sharing.

- Using Advanced Sharing
	: Advanced Sharing provides several more configuration options compared to Network File and Folder Sharing.
	: When you use Advanced Sharing, you're configuring only share-folder permissions. You must configure file permissions separately.
	: you must be careful when you do this to ensure you're setting the permissions exactly as you require. 

- Sharing folders by using the command line
	: 