Explore windows client file systems

Examine the file allocation table (FAT) file system
	: FAT is the oldest file system that Windows client supports
	

Examine the new technology file system (NTFS)
	: Default file system in windows 
	: NTFS best use of volume bcz performance doesn't degrade under NTFS with larger volume sizes, as it does under FAT.
	: Reliability - NTFS uses log-file and checkpoint information to restore the consistency of the file system when the computer restarts. In the event of a bad-sector error, NTFS dynamically remaps the cluster that contains the bad sector, and it allocates a new cluster for the data.
	: Security - You can set permissions on a file, folder, or the entire NTFS volume, which enables you to control which users, groups, or computers can read, modify, or delete data.
	: Data Confidentiality - NTFS supports EFS (Encrypted File System) to protect file content. 
	: Limit storage growth - NTFS supports the use of disk quotas to limit storage growth. Disk quotas enable you to specify the amount of disk space that's available to a user.
	: Provide additional space - NTFS allows you to create extra disk space by compressing files, folders, or whole drives. You also can extend an NTFS volume by mounting an additional volume to an empty folder.
	: Support for large volumes -  You can format a volume up to 256 TB by using the NTFS with a 64 KB cluster size. 
	: Auditing - You can audit user actions on NTFS. For example, if a user deletes a file, Event Viewer will log that action.
	: Advanced features - NTFS includes multiple advanced features, such as distributed link tracing, sparse files, and multiple data streams.

Note :- By using the Convert.exe utility, you can convert FAT or FAT32 to NTFS on data volumes without downtime or data loss.

- Disadvantages to using NTFS
	: Lack of file encryption
	: Unable to format a floppy disk 	
	: File system conversion - You can't convert NTFS to FAT.

Examine the Resilient file system
	: It designed to provide the highest level of resiliency, integrity, and scalability, regardless of software or hardware failures.
	: ReFS is especially useful for data volumes in multiterabyte (TB) file servers and for cluster-shared volumes in failover clusters.
	
Knowledge Check

1. You're configuring a Windows 10 desktop computer. You added a new hard disk drive to the computer. You want to configure the drive to support quotas so that you can track and control disk-space usage. Which file system should you format the new drive with? 
A. FAT
B. NTFS
C. ReFS

Ans B =NTFS supports the use of disk quotas, which enable you to specify the amount of disk space that is available to a user. When you enable disk quotas, you can track and control disk-space usage. You can configure whether to allow users to exceed their limits and configure Windows to log an event when a user exceeds a specified warning level or quota limit.

2. When comparing NTFS and FAT file systems, which of the following features is unique to NTFS? 
A. NTFS uses smaller clusters to reduce space wastage on hard disks
B. NTFS supports file encryption
C. You can format floppy disks with NTFS

Ans A = NTFS manages disk space more efficiently than FAT by using smaller cluster sizes. For example, a 30-GB NTFS volume uses 4-KB clusters. The same volume formatted with FAT32 uses 16-KB clusters. Using smaller clusters reduces space wastage on hard disks.

3. Windows client supports three versions of FAT: FAT, FAT32, and exFAT. There are several differences between these versions. For example, one difference is the size of the largest supported volume. Another difference is the maximum file size. Which of the following items is another difference between these three FAT versions? 
A. You can only convert exFAT to NTFS
B. The maximum number of files and folders that you can create on the volume
C. FAT32 is the only version of FAT that NTFS can be converted to

Ans B = The main difference between the three versions is the size of the largest supported volume, the default cluster size, and the maximum number of files and folders that you can create on the volume.

4. While ReFS was built on NTFS, it's designed to provide the highest level of resiliency, integrity, and scalability, regardless of software or hardware failures. Which of the following features is unique to ReFS when compared to NTFS? 
A. ReFS allows you to control file permissions
B. ReFS allows you to configure auditing
C. ReFS periodically scans volumes and tries to automatically correct any corruption

Ans C = ReFS periodically scans volumes. If it detects corruption, ReFS tries to correct the corruption automatically. If it can't repair the corruption automatically, ReFS localizes the salvaging process to the corruption area. This doesn't require any downtime for the volume.

5. You are configuring the storage on a Windows 10 computer. You format a 32 GB volume with FAT32. What is the maximum file size supported on this volume? 
A. 32 GB
B. 4 GB
C. 8 GB

Ans B = FAT32 supports a maximum file size of 4 GB.