Evaluate deployment methods

- Modern 
	: Windows Autopilot - reconfigure win 10, 11 devices effectively ahieving a customized new install with apps and settings alreadt configured
	: In place upgrade - used windows setup to update your OS and migrate apps and settings

- Dynamic 
	: Subscription activation 
	: Azure Active Directory and Mobile device management
	: Provising packaging 

- Traditional 
	: Bare metal - fresh OS (Need to wipe everything)
	: Refersh - called as wipe and load, redeploy a device by saving the user state, wiping the disk, then restoring the user state
	: Replace - Same as bare metal with consideration for existing user data.

- Autopilot 
	: windows 10 first introduced autopilot feature 
	: Motive of autopilot is reducing creating image method and deploying it.
	:

- High touch deployment 
	: For small organization (0-100) who don't have much experience in IT or lack of IT staff.
	: 

- Lite touch deployment 
	: suitable for medium size organization (200-500)
	: Uses Microsoft deployment toolkit (MDT) or Microsoft intune 
	

- Zero touch deployment
	: Suitable for large organization (>500).
	: Microsoft intune & MDT (Microsoft deployment toolkit)

- Windows assessment and deployment toolkit 
	: Deployment Image Servicing and Management (DISM)
	: Windows Imaging and Configuration Designer (Windows ICD)
	: Windows System Image Manager (Windows SIM)
	: User State Migration Tool (USMT)
	: Volume Activation Management Tool (VAMT)
	: Windows Assessment Services
	: Windows Performance Toolkit (WPT)
	: Application Compatibility Toolkit (ACT)
	: Microsoft SQL Server 2012 Express.

- Deployment Image Servicing and Management (DISM)
	: command line tool for create and manage images.
	: example of command `Dism /Capture-Image /ImageFile:"D:\Images\Fabrikam.wim" /CaptureDir:C:\ /Name:Fabrikam`

- DISM Offline Servicing
	: change image while they aren't in use, edit existing image, mount the image, make desired changes and then dismount the image.
	: example 
		`DISM /Mount-Image /ImageFile:C:\test\images\install.wim /MountDir:C:\test\offline
		 DISM /Image:C:\test\offline /Add-Driver /Driver:C:\drivers\mydriver.inf
		 DISM /Unmount-Image /MountDir:C:\test\offline /Commit`

- Windows Imaging and Configuration Designer (windows ICD)
	: Tools for design for assist with creation of provisional package.

- Windows System Image Manager (Windows SIM)
	: use to create unattended installation answer files (Unattend.xml) and distribute shares or change the files that a configuration set contains. 

- Volume Activation Management Tool (VAMT)
	: Automate and manage the activation of windows, windows server, and microsoft office.
	: If you don’t use KMS, you can still manage your MAKs centrally with the Volume Activation Management Tool (VAMT).
	: This tool can install and manage product keys throughout the organization. VAMT can also activate on behalf of clients without Internet access, acting as a MAK proxy.
	: command `Get-VamtProduct`

- Windows Preinstallation Environment (Windows PE)
	: Windows PE is a minimal 32-bit or 64-bit operating system with limited services built on the Windows kernel.
	: Windows PE replaces the DOS or Linux boot disks that were once used.
	
- Windows Deployment Services (WDS)
	: enables the deployment of Windows operating systems. 
	: Setup new client with a network-based installation without requiring administrator visit each computer or install directly 
	
- Microsoft Deployment Toolkit
	: MDT is a free deployment solution from microsoft.
	: Provides end-to-end guidance, best practices, and tools for planning, building, and deploying windows OS.
	: Lite Touch: A stand-alone deployment solution.
	: Zero Touch: An extension to System Center 2012 R2 Configuration Manager.

- Identifying which components to migrate 
	: User accounts
	: Application settings
	: Operating-System settings
	: File types, Files, Folders, and Settings

- Using USMT
	: ScanState.exe - scans the source computer (collects file and settings and then create a store)
	: localState.exe - migrates the files and settings (one at a time, from store to temporary location on the destination computer)

- windows sandbox
	: Pristine - every time windows sanbox runs, it's as clean as brand new installation of windows
	: Disposable - Nothing Persist on the device. when sanbox is closed everything discarded.
	: Secure - whatever happened it will within the sanbox
	: Efficient - User integrated kernel schedualer, smart memory management,and virtual GPU.

