Configure IP network connectivity

- Explore windows network configuration
From wifi or Ethernet 
	: Change advanced sharing options - configure network discovery, file and print sharing, public folder sharing, media sharing options and encyrption used in these all.
	: Launch the network and sharing option - configure most network settings
	: Configure windows firewall - configure windows firewall rules
From within wifi 
	: View available networks
	: View hardware properties
	: Managed known networks 
	: Configure hotspot 2.0 network

- Explore IPv4 settings
	: In conjunction with a subnet mask, the address identifies
		- The computer's unique identity, which is the HOST ID
		- The subnet on whcih the computer resides, which is the network ID

Define subnet from IPv4 networks
Explain public and private IP addressing 
	
- DHCP 
	: Include resilience in your DHCP service design so that the failure of a single server does not prevent the service from functioning.
	: Configure DHCP server carefully. If you made mistack it can affect the whole network.

Examine tools for configuring network settings

Note :- Functionality in the Windows PowerShell network-related cmdlets has largely replaced Netsh.

- windows disgonose tools for network problems

	: Event Viewer
	: Windows network disgnostics 
	: IPConfig
	: Ping
	: Tracert
	: NSLookup	
	: Pathping
	: Windows PowerShell

- Event Viewer
	: windows records the event in an appropiate event log
	: Event viewer can access the application security, setup, and system logs under the system logs the windows logs node.
	
- Windows network diagnostics 
	: it presents a possible description of the problem and potential remedy.
	
IPConfig
	: Display current TCP/IP network configuration
	: IPConfig can use to refresh DHCP, and DNS settings. 
	
command			Description
ipconfig /all 		View detailed configuration information.
ipconfig /release	Release the leased configuration back to the DHCP server.	
ipconfig /renew 	Renew the leased configuration.
ipconfig /displaydns 	View the DNS resolve cache.
ipconfig /flushdns 	Purge the DNS resolve cache.
ipconfig /registerdns 	Register/update the client's host name with the DNS server.

Ping
	: It verify the ip level connectivity to another TCP/IP computer.	
	: It sends and receive the ICMP (internet Control Message Protocol) packets.
	
Note :- Firewalls might block the ICMP requests. As a result, you might receive false negatives when using Ping as a troubleshooting tool.

Tracert 
	: It determines the path taken to a destination computer by sending ICMP echo requests. 
	: This tool also determines which router has failed, and what the latency, or speed, is.
	: These results might not be accurate if the router is busy, because the router will assign the packets a low priority.

Pathping
	: Quite same as Tracert however Pathping provides more detailed statistics on the individual steps, or hops, through the network.
	: The command can provide greater detail because it sends 100 packets for each router, which enables it to establish trends.

Examine IPv6 addressing
	: Large address space
	: Hierachical addressing and routing infrastructure
	: Stateless and stateful address configuration 
	: Required support for internet protocol security (IPsec) - The IPv6 required support for the authentication Header (AH) and encapsulating security payload (ESP) header that IPsec defines. Although IPsec does not define support for it's specific authentication methods and cryptographic algorithms, IPsec is defined from the start as the way to protect Ipv6 packets.
Note :- IPsec provides for authentication and, optionally, encryption for communications between hosts.
	: Restored end-to-end communication 
	: Prioritized delivery
	: Support for single-subnet environments
	: Extensibility
IPv address types
	: Unicast
	: Global unicast addresses - globally routable	
	: Link-local addresses	
		- IPv6 link-local addresses are equivalent to IPv4 APIPA addresses.
		- Link-local addresses always begin with FE80.
	: Unique local unicast addresses - Unique local addresses provide an equivalent to the private IPv4 address space for organizations, without the overlap in address space when organizations combine.
	: Multicast 
	: Anycast 
	
Explore IPv6 in windows client 
	: windows uses IPv6 by default that includes some features
		- shared transport and framing layer
		- Shared filtering for firewall and IPsec
		- Consistent performance, security, and support for both IPv6 and IPv4

Direct Access use of IPv6 
	: It enables to remote user to access corporate network anytime bcz it doesn't required virtual private network (VPN). 