Explore remote access

Explore virtual private networks

- Site to site VPN 
	: It is also called as route to route VPN, that enables your organization to have routed connections between seprate offices or with other organizations over a public netwrok, while maintaining secure communications.
	
Properties of VPN connection
	: Point to point tunneling Protocol
	: Layer two tunneling protocol with IPsec (L2TP/IPsec)
	: Secure socket tunneline protocol (SSTP)
	: Internet key exchange verison 2 (IKEv2)

Note :- An IKEv2 VPN provides resilience to the VPN client when the client either moves from one wireless hotspot to another or switches from a wireless to a wired connection. This ability is a requirement of VPN Reconnect.

- Conditional access framework
	: Can provide addtional security for your remote access connection by intergrating VPN with the Azure Active Directory (AD) conditional access framework.
	: Conditional Access policies analyze signals such as user, device, and location to automate decisions and enforce organizational access policies for resources.
	
- common signals that conditional access framework has
	: User or group membership 
	: IP location information
	: Device
	: Application
	: Real-time and calculated risk detection
	: Microsoft defender for cloud app

- Windows information protection
	: It is another protection feature which includes (Bitlocker, drive encryption, applocker, and microsoft azure rights management)
	: with new VPNv2 configuration service provider, you have new ability to use an MDM solution VPN profiles on managed devices. 
	
- Additional remote access usability improvements 
	: Always On
	: App-triggered VPN
	: Traffic filters
	: LockDown VPN
	
- Describe always on VPN
	: Always on vpn provides a more seamless experience for end user.	
	: It support remote access, domained-joined, nondomain-joined, or Azure AD-joined, and personally own devices.
	: Admin configure routing policy to determine when the client should direct traffic over the VPN. policy can be based on user, hardware, or software criteria.

- Always on VPN and direct access
	: Always on VPN is a successor of direct access.
	: Microsoft recommends migrant to always on VPN bcz always on VPN can use IPv4 and IPv6 both while direct access uses Ipv6 only.
	: Always on VPN has more features than direct access
	: Always on VPN support in windows 10 and later on updates as well where direct access supports windows 8.1
	
- Configuring client for always on VPN
	: It can configure through ProfileXML.
	: ProfileXML is uniform resource identifier (URL) node within the VPNv2 configuration service provider (CSP). 
	: 