Upgrade and migrate windows clients

- An in-place upgrade
	: upgrade a operating system while retaining all the programs, programs settings, user-realted programs, and user data.
	
- Evaluate
	: check minimum requirements meets with new upgradation version
	: check application compaibility 
	: drivers availables for new upgradation version

- Backup 
	: always have a backup if anything goes wrong so can come back to whatever it is.

- Upgrade
	: Run upgrade program or exe file.

- Verify 
	: verify all application, deivers, and other functionality 

- Update
	: check always for update 
-S mode
	: S mode is version of Win 10,11 that streamlined for security and performance while providing a familiar windows experience.
	: S mode available to Home, Pro, and enterprise windows 10, you can switch out of S mode to Home, Pro, Education, or Enterprise but once compelted, you can't switch back without relaoding the OS.
	: can switch to Microsoft store or Microsoft Intune
	: S mode only available in windows 11 Home edition 

- Restore 
	: User State Migration Tool (USMT) to migrate user settings and application to old device to new device
	: Can use oneDrive synchronize.
- Side by side migration
	: You configured a new device with fresh install of winodows using the organization typical method of OS deployment.
	: Use USMT is used to migrate the user's data and settings to a migration store or directly to the target device.

- In place migration
	: Either upgrading new os or refreashing the existing os.

- upgrade vs Migrate 
"upgrade"

Advantages 						Disadvantages
Retains user settings, application settings,	Doesn't take advantage of the opportunity to start 
and files with no additional effort.		fresh with standardized reference configurations, 
						if these weren't used previously and adequately maintained.

Preserves installed applications, and 		Small chance that preserved applications may not work
typically doesn't require reinstallation 	correctly after upgrading from an older Windows version.
of applications.

Doesn't require extra storage space for 	Remnant files or settings from in-place upgrade may
migration files.				contribute to performance and security issues.

Affects user productivity minimally, 		Some upgrade paths may not be supported.
and preserves user settings and data 
as in the source computer.

Provides a simpler setup process.

Rollback is available if there was a problem.


"Migration"

Advantages 						Disadvantages
Offers a fresh start with the opportunity to 	Requires the use of migration tools, such as USMT,
clean up existing computers and create more 	to capture and restore user settings and data.
stable and secure desktop environments, 
a significant advantage when creating a 
managed environment.

Allows for installation of any edition 		Requires reinstallation of applications
regardless of what edition was running 
previously on the computers.

Provides the opportunity to reconfigure		Requires storage space for user settings and files to be 
hardware-level settings, such as disk 		migrated.
partitioning, before installation.

Viruses, spyware, and other malicious 		May have an impact on user productivity because of the
software don't migrate to the new 		reconfiguration of applications and settings.
installation of Windows.

