Provide apps to users

Explore types of windows apps
	: Desktop apps 
	: Universal windows platform (UWP)
	
Desktop apps
	: It is traditional app, referred as win32 apps.
	: Microsoft store is most common way to find UWP apps.
	: Launching an .exe or .msi file from either product media, network location share, or downloaded from a website.	
	: As a package distributed from application management solution such as Endpoint Configuration Manager, typically used to automate & manage installations in an organization.

Universal windows platform apps 
	: More secure 
	: Cross-device windows support
	: Easy distribution
	: Private distribution
	: UWP apps are packaged in the .appx file

App-V apps
	: App-V apps used to deliver win32 apps virtually to clients - either automatically, or on-demand. unlike UWP or desktop app, app-v application is never installed on the client OS.
	: Run multiple versions of applications
	: Minimize application conflict 
	: Simplify application removal 
	: Simplify application upgrades 
	
RemoteApp apps 
	: Windows server RemoteApp apps display locally but run remotely.
	: Instead of apps being installed on the client, they are only installed on a server.
	: Insufficient client hardware 
	: Incompatible OS
	: BYOD scenarios

Examine methods for developing desktop apps
	: Manual installation
	: Group policy 
	: Microsoft Endpoint configuration manager 
	: Microsoft Intune 
	: Virtualzed applications
	: Remote application
	: Inclusion in a windows OS image.
	
The windows installer service
	: MSI file similar to Exe files, 
	: windows always use windows installer open MSI files and install the program they contain, however vendor already made apps available in the MSI format.
	
Setup.exe files compared to MSI files
	: An exe file provides user with more control over the installation process
	: An exe file actually triggered one or more MSI files
	: An exe files does all this checking and abstract away from some of the complexity of installing your program.
	: With an exe file, you can optionally build a custom UI
	
Primary advantage of using MSI files manifest when apps are uninstalled 
	: No leftover artifacts when uninstalling apps that were installed using an MSI package.


Automate desktop app installation
	
- Automating installation by using group policy 
	: Group policy software deployment enables you to deploy desktop apps in the windows installer .msi file format to computer that belong to an Active Directory domain service.
	
some GPO requirement 
	: The target computers must belong to an AD DS domain.
	: You must package the software in the windows installer .msi file format.
	: User and computer accounts can be the target of an app deployment.
	: You can target a deployment at the domain level, the site level, or the organization unit (OU) level.
	
Group Polocy software deployment types
	: Assign
	: Publish
	

Group Polocy software deployment drawbacks
	: It can be difficult to determine whether a deployment is successful
	: There is no prerequisit checking
	: There is no installation schedule

- Installtion by using endpoint configuration manager
	: collections - you can create a collection that includes only the computers that are located at a specific site with a certain deployed app and a specific piece of installed hardware.
	: Multiple deployment types - you can configure an app to install locally if a user is logged on to his or her primary device, but to stream as an App-V app if the user is logged on to another device.
	: Reporting 
	: Wake on LAN (WOL) - WOL functionality allows you to schedule app deployment to occur after normal business hours.
	: Software inventory, software meeting, and asset intelligence