Managed Drivers and device peripherals 

- Examine device drivers
- install driver manually 
	: The hardware may be old and not available for windows update
	: The hardware driver is only provided by the manufacture
	: driver may be different then the one provided by windows.

- A driver package is a set of files that make up a driver. A driver package includes
	: The .inf file
	: Any files that the .inf file reference
	: The catalog (.cat) file that contains the digital signature of the device driver.

Device manager
	: Install and update device driver
	: Disable or enable device
	: Use the driver roll back feature
	: Change resource that devices use, such as interrupt requests(IRQs)
	: Troubleshoot device problems 
	: View devices that are connected currently to your network, and the resouces that they're using.

Printer port
	: Windows automaticaly detect a printer port however it cannot detect a port if printer working on old port such as serial (COM), Parallel (LPT) ports or network printers.

Understand type 3 and 4 printer driver
	: In past type 3 printer driver customized by manufacture 
	: Type 4 driver common use in windows for doing basic task, Common printing languages include PCL and PostScript or XPS.
	: Type 4 printer drivers are typically delivered using Windows Update or Windows Software Update Services (WSUS). Unlike Type 3 drivers, Type 4 drivers don't download from a print server.
	
- Benefits of type 4
	: Sharing a printer doesn't require adding extra drivers that match the client architecture.
	: Support multiple printer models
	: Driver files are isolated on a per-driver basis, which prevents potential driver file-naming conflicts.
	: Driver package is smaller than type 3 and run faster than type 3
	: Printer driver and the printer user interface can be deployed independently with Type 4 drivers.

Managed client-side printing
	: Changing printer properties, such as sharing, security, and advanced properties
	: Selecting your default printer
	: Viewing and managing your print queue
	: Pausing or resuming a printer's operation.
	: Pausing, resuming, restarting, or canceling prints jobs.
	: Recordering print jobs in your print queue.
